<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_a0523f5a-b1f9-445e-a105-6bd25bab4a20">
  <title>Header files</title>
  <prolog>
    <author>${nxp-useremail}</author>
    <publisher>NXP B.V.</publisher>
    <critdates>
      <created date="2021-02-09"/>
      <revised modified="2021-02-09"/>
    </critdates>
    <permissions view=""/>
    <metadata/>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The general naming convention for header files is <codeph>rfe&lt;layer>&lt;module>.h</codeph>
      where <codeph>&lt;layer></codeph> specifies the layer of the this code and
        <codeph>module</codeph> specifies the module identifier. The <codeph>&lt;layer></codeph>
      part can be omitted in cases where the module applies to the user visible top level.</p>
    <p>The contents of a header file shall be completely encapsulate in an include guard. This
      include guard shall use an identifier that corresponds to the file name converted to the
      ALL_CAPS notation. The formatting shall comply to the following example for file
      "rfeHwReg.h":<codeblock scale="70">#ifndef RFE_HW_REG_H
#define RFE_HW_REG_H

// header file contents

#endif // !RFE_HW_REG_H
</codeblock></p>
    <p>The last line of the header file shall be an empty line.</p>
    <p>An #include directive shall not contain absolute paths.</p>
    <p>An #include directive referring to standard library header files shall use angle brackets
      (e.g., <codeph>#include &lt;stdint.h></codeph>).</p>
    <p>An #include directive not referring to standard library header files shall use double quotes
      (e.g., <codeph>#include "rfeHwReg.h"</codeph>).</p>
    <p>The header file shall not contain executable code except for inline functions. Inline
      functions are preferred to function like macros due to the added type checking. </p>
    <p>An example of an inline function
      is:<codeblock scale="70">inline uint32_t rfeHwExample_max(
    uint32_t        a,
    uint32_t        b
)
{
    // implementation
}</codeblock></p>
  </body>
</topic>
